Python Client for the Software-Challenge Germany 2023
=====================================================

|GitHub Workflow Status| |Read the Docs| |PyPI| |PyPI - Python Version|
|Discord| |Documentation|

   Please note that this is a very early version, which may still
   contain some bugs. However, the client is able to play a game from
   start to end.

This repository contains the Python package for the `Software-Challenge
Germany <https://www.software-challenge.de>`__, a programming
competition for students. The students have to develop an artificial
intelligence that plays and competes against other opponents in an
annually changing game.

   This year it is the game `Hey, danke fÃ¼r den
   Fisch! <https://docs.software-challenge.de/spiele/penguins>`__.

Installation
------------

Two methods are presented here to install the ``socha`` client. The
first one is the fastest to get started right away. However, this method
will not make it possible to run your player in the competition system,
since there is no Internet connection that allows you to download
packages. Therefore, the possibility of a virtual environment is
presented, which installs the packages inside the folder.

   Pleas make sure that you have at least **Python 3.6** installed.
   Check with ``$ python -V`` or ``$ python3 -V``.

   -  Windows: ``> winget install -e --id Python.Python.3.6``
   -  Debian: ``$ sudo apt install python3.6``
   -  Arch: ``$ sudo pacman -S python``

Globally
~~~~~~~~

The installation is quite simple with pip.

.. code:: shell

   $ pip install socha

If you want to install the package manually, then you have to download
the release of your choice, unpack the package and then run ``setup.py``
with Python.

.. code:: shell

   $ python setup.py install --user

This should satisfy the dependencies and you can start right away.

Virtual Environment
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

To create a virtual environment, you should first create a directory in
which you want to develop your player and than enter that directory.

.. code:: shell

   $ mkdir my_player
   $ cd my_player

Now you can create the virtual environment (venv).

.. code:: shell

   $ python -m venv venv/

This takes a moment. After the *venv* is created, you can open it.

On Linux:

.. code:: shell

   $ source venv/bin/activate

On Windows:

.. code:: bash

   > Set-ExecutionPolicy Unrestricted -Scope Process
   > .\venv\Scripts\activate

It should open the *venv* and you can now install packages and run your
scripts here. To develop your player you just have to install the
package socha with ``pip``.

.. code:: shell

   (venv) $ pip install socha

This should satisfy the dependencies and you can start right away.

Getting Started
---------------

If you want to start with the Software-Challenge Python Client, you have
to import some dependencies first.

The import is kept very simple, since herewith all needed dependencies
are imported, due to changes of the ``__init__.py``. But if you want to
avoid unnecessary imports, you can of course import only what you
actually need.

.. code:: python

   from socha import *

If you now want to develop and implement your logic, then the structure
of the class should look like this.

.. code:: python

   class Logic(IClientHandler):
       gameState: GameState

       def calculate_move(self) -> Move:
           possibleMoves = self.gameState.possible_moves
           return possibleMoves[0]

       def on_update(self, state: GameState):
           self.gameState = state

The above example is the simplest working Logic you can build. As you
can see the Logic must inherit from the ``IClientHandler``, so that you
can overwrite its methods and the api knows where to find your logic.

If you're done with your version of an working player, than you have to
finish your file with this function, where you call the Starter with
your desired arguments. The following starts the client with the default
arguments.

.. code:: python

   if __name__ == "__main__":
       Starter(Logic())

Start arguments
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

If you want to run your logic from the console, you can of course pass
start arguments.

   Note that any arguments passed as startup parameters will override
   those in the code, including the ones you set yourself.

+----------------------------------+----------------------------------+
| argument                         | description                      |
+==================================+==================================+
| ``--help``                       | Prints a help message.           |
+----------------------------------+----------------------------------+
| ``-h HOST`` , ``--host HOST``    | The host to connect to. The      |
|                                  | default is 'localhost'.          |
+----------------------------------+----------------------------------+
| ``-p PORT``, ``--port PORT``     | The port of the host. The        |
|                                  | default is 13050.                |
+----------------------------------+----------------------------------+
| ``-r RESERVATION``,              | Reservation code for a prepared  |
| ``--reservation RESERVATION``    | game.                            |
+----------------------------------+----------------------------------+
| ``-R ROOM``, ``--room ROOM``     | Room Id the client will try to   |
|                                  | connect.                         |
+----------------------------------+----------------------------------+
| ``-s``, ``--survive``            | If present the client will keep  |
|                                  | running, even if the connection  |
|                                  | to the server is terminated.     |
+----------------------------------+----------------------------------+
| ``-l``, ``--log``                | If present the client will write |
|                                  | a log file to the current        |
|                                  | directory.                       |
+----------------------------------+----------------------------------+

Make your player ready to hand in
---------------------------------

To make your player usable for the competition system, you need to
create a virtual environment, as described
`above <#virtual-environment>`__.

Once you have done this, you still need to create a shell script that
uses the contest system as the entry point for your player. It **must**
be named ``start.sh`` because otherwise it cannot be found. There you
must enter the following and place it in the root of your directory.

.. code:: shell

   #!/bin/sh
   chmod +x logic.py
   . venv/bin/activate
   python ./logic.py "$@"

When you have done this, you should have a directory structure that
looks something like this:

::

   my_player/
   |- venv/
   |- logic.py
   |- start.sh

The ``my_player`` directory, or whatever you named yours, then just
needs to be packaged as a ZIP archive and your player is ready to be
uploaded. ðŸ¥³ðŸŽ‰

.. |GitHub Workflow Status| image:: https://img.shields.io/github/workflow/status/FalconsSky/Software-Challenge-Python-Client/static%20and%20unit%20tests?label=Test
   :target: https://github.com/FalconsSky/Software-Challenge-Python-Client
.. |Read the Docs| image:: https://img.shields.io/readthedocs/software-challenge-python-client?label=Docs
   :target: https://software-challenge-python-client.readthedocs.io/en/latest/
.. |PyPI| image:: https://img.shields.io/pypi/v/socha?label=PyPi
   :target: https://pypi.org/project/socha/
.. |PyPI - Python Version| image:: https://img.shields.io/pypi/pyversions/socha?label=Python
   :target: https://pypi.org/project/socha/
.. |Discord| image:: https://img.shields.io/discord/233577109363097601?color=blue&label=Discord
   :target: https://discord.gg/ARZamDptG5
.. |Documentation| image:: https://img.shields.io/badge/Software--Challenge%20-Documentation-%234299e1
   :target: https://docs.software-challenge.de/


Indices and tables
==================

.. toctree::
   :maxdepth: 5
   :caption: Contents:

   socha


* :ref:`genindex`
* :ref:`modindex`
* :ref:`search`
